.\" Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Ivana Varekova <varekova@redhat.com>.

.TH CGCLASSIFY  1 2009-03-15 "Linux" "libcgroup Manual"
.SH NAME
cgclassify \- move running task(s) to given cgroups

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcgclassify\fR [\fB-b\fR] [\fB-g\fR <\fIcontrollers>:<path\fR>] [--sticky | --cancel-sticky] <\fIpidlist\fR>

.SH DESCRIPTION
this command moves processes defined by the list
of processes
(\fBpidlist\fR)
to the given control groups.

The pids in the pidlist are separated by spaces

.TP
.B -b
ignores the default systemd delegated hierarchy path and
constructs the path of the control groups relative to the
cgroup root hierarchy.

.TP
.B -g <controllers>:<path>
defines the control groups where the task will be moved.
\fBcontrollers\fR is a list of controllers and
\fBpath\fR is the relative path to control groups
in the given controllers list.

This flag can be used multiple times to
define multiple pairs of lists of controllers
and relative paths.
Instead of the list of all mounted controllers,
the wildcard \fB*\fR can be used.

If this option is not used then
\fBcgclassify\fR will automatically move the task to a
control group based on \fB/etc/cgrules.conf\fR.

.TP
.B -r
Replaces systemd scope's idle process with the
\fBfirst process\fR of the list of process (\fBpidlist\fR).

.TP
.B --sticky
If this option is used, the daemon of service cgred (cgrulesengd process)
does not change both the specified \fBpidlist\fR and their children tasks.
Without this option, the daemon does not change the specified \fBpidlist\fR
but it automatically changes their child tasks to the right cgroup based on
\fB/etc/cgrules.conf\fR.

.TP
.B --cancel-sticky
If this option is used, the daemon of service cgred (cgrulesengd process)
can automatically change both the specified \fBpidlist\fR and their child
tasks to the right cgroup based on \fB/etc/cgrules.conf\fR.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B CGROUP_LOGLEVEL
controls verbosity of the tool. Allowed values are \fBDEBUG\fR,
\fBINFO\fR, \fBWARNING\fR or \fBERROR\fR.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/cgrules.conf
default libcgroup configuration file
.TP
.B /etc/cgrules.d
default libcgroup configuration files directory

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B cgclassify -g cpu:student 1234
moves process with pid number 1234 to control group student in cpu hierarchy.

.TP
.B cgclassify 1234
moves process with pid number 1234 to control groups based on
\fB/etc/cgrules.conf\fR configuration file.

.TP
.B cgclassify --sticky -g cpu:/student 1234
moves process with pid number 1234 to control group student in cpu hierarchy.
The daemon of service cgred does not change cgroups of pid 1234 and its children
(based on \fB/etc/cgrules.conf\fR).

.SH SEE ALSO
cgrules.conf (5), cgexec (1)

