.\" Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Ivana Varekova <varekova@redhat.com>.

.TH CGCONFIGPARSER  8 2009-03-16 "Linux" "libcgroup Manual"
.SH NAME

cgconfigparser \- setup control group file system

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcgconfigparser\fR [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fI<filename>\fR] [\fB-L\fR \fI<directory>\fR] [...]

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Displays help.
.TP
.B -l, --load=FILE
Parses the control groups configuration file
Sets up the control group file system
defined by the configuration file and mounts
mount points defined by the configuration file.
The format of the file is described in
\fBcgconfig.conf\fR. This option can be used multiple times and can be mixed
with \fB-L\fR option.

.TP
.B -L, --load-directory=DIR
Finds all files in given directory and parses them in alphabetical order
like they were specified by \fB-l\fR option. This option can be used
multiple times and can be mixed with \fB-l\fR option.

.TP
.B -a <agid>:<auid>
defines the default owner of the
rest of the defined control group’s files. These users are
allowed to set subsystem parameters and create subgroups.
The default value is the same as has the parent cgroup.

.TP
.B -d, --dperm=mode
sets the default permissions of a control groups directory.
The permissions needs to be specified as octal numbers e.g.
\fB-d 775\fR.

.TP
.B -f, --fperm=mode
sets the default permissions of the control group files.
The permissions needs to be specified as octal numbers e.g.
\fB-f 775\fR.
The value is not used as given because the current owner's
permissions are used as an umask (so 777 will set group and
others permissions to the owners permissions).

.TP
.B -s, --tperm=mode
sets the default permissions of the control group tasks files.
The permissions needs to be specified as octal numbers e.g.
\fB-f 775\fR.
The value is not used as given because the current owner's
permissions are used as an umask (so 777 will set group and
others permissions to the owners permissions).

.TP
.B -t <tuid>:<tgid>
defines the default owner of tasks file of the defined control
group. I.e. this user and members
of this group have write access to the file.

.LP

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B CGROUP_LOGLEVEL
controls verbosity of the tool. Allowed values are \fBDEBUG\fR,
\fBINFO\fR, \fBWARNING\fR or \fBERROR\fR.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/cgconfig.conf
default libcgroup configuration file
.TP
.B /etc/cgconfig.d/
default libcgroup configuration files directory

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B cgconfigparser -l /etc/cgconfig.conf
setup control group file system based on \fB/etc/cgconfig.conf\fR configuration file


.SH SEE ALSO
cgconfig.conf (5)
