.\" Written by Ivana Hutarova Varekova <varekova@redhat.com>

.TH CGCREATE  1 2009-03-15 "Linux" "libcgroup Manual"
.SH NAME
cgcreate \- create new cgroup(s)

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcgcreate\fR [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-b\fR] [\fB-c\fR]
[\fB-t\fR <\fItuid>:<tgid\fR>] [\fB-a\fR <\fIagid>:<auid\fR>]
[\fB-f\fR mode] [\fB-d\fR mode]
[\fB-s\fR mode] \fB-g\fR <\fIcontrollers>:<path\fR> [\fB-g\fR ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The command creates new cgroup(s) defined by the options
\fB-g\fR.

.TP
.B -a <agid>:<auid>
defines the name of the user and the group which own the
rest of the defined control group’s files. These users are
allowed to set subsystem parameters and create subgroups.
The default value is the same as has the parent cgroup.

.TP
.B -b
ignores the default systemd delegated hierarchy path and
constructs the path of the control groups relative to the
cgroup root hierarchy.

.TP
.B -c, --scope
creates a new systemd scope. The cgroup name provided after the
\fB-g\fR flag must be of the form
\fB<slice-name>.slice/<scope-name>.scope\fR. If the slice
does not exist, systemd will create it. Libcgroup will place an
idle process in the scope's cgroup.procs file unless the \fB-p\fR
flag is provided.

.TP
.B -d, --dperm=mode
sets the permissions of a control groups directory.
The permissions needs to be specified as octal numbers e.g.
\fB-d 775\fR.

.TP
.B -f, --fperm=mode
sets the permissions of the control groups parameters.
The permissions needs to be specified as octal numbers e.g.
\fB-f 775\fR.
The value is not used as given because the current owner's
permissions are used as an umask (so 777 will set group and
others permissions to the owners permissions).

.TP
.B -g <controllers>:<path>
defines control groups to be added.
\fBcontrollers\fR is a list of controllers. Character "*" can be used
as a shortcut for "all mounted controllers".
\fBpath\fR is the relative path to control groups
in the given controllers list. This option can be specified
multiple times.

.TP
.B -h, --help
display this help and exit

.TP
.B -p, --pid=pid
moves the provided \fBpid\fR into the
\fB<slice-name>.slice/<scope-name>.scope\fR.  Must be used in
conjunction with \fB-c\fR.

.TP
.B -s, --tperm=mode
sets the permissions of the control group tasks file.
The permissions needs to be specified as octal numbers e.g.
\fB-s 775\fR.
The value is not used as given because the current owner's
permissions are used as an umask (so 777 will set group and
others permissions to the owners permissions).

.TP
.B -S, --setdefault
sets the scope specified via the \fB-c\fR option as the default
libcgroup scope.  This default scope is used by libcgroup tools
to build up the cgroup path.  See the \fB-b\fR option.

.TP
.B -t <tuid>:<tgid>
defines the name of the user and the group, which owns tasks
file of the defined control group. I.e. this user and members
of this group have write access to the file.
The default value is the same as has the parent cgroup.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B CGROUP_LOGLEVEL
controls verbosity of the tool. Allowed values are \fBDEBUG\fR,
\fBINFO\fR, \fBWARNING\fR or \fBERROR\fR.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B cgcreate -g *:student devices:teacher
create control group student in all mounted hierarchies and create
control group teacher in hierarchy containing controller devices.




.SH SEE ALSO
cgrules.conf (5)
cgexec (1)
cgclassify (1)
