.\" Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Ivana Varekova <varekova@redhat.com>

.TH CGEXEC  1 2009-03-15 "Linux" "libcgroup Manual"
.SH NAME

cgexec \- run the task in given control groups

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcgexec\fR [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-b\fR] [\fB-g\fR <\fIcontrollers>:<path\fR>] [--sticky] \fBcommand\fR [\fIarguments\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBcgexec\fR
program executes the task \fBcommand\fR
with arguments \fBarguments\fR in the given control groups.

.TP
.B -b
ignores the default systemd delegated hierarchy path and
constructs the path of the control groups relative to the
cgroup root hierarchy.

.TP
.B -g <controllers>:<path>
defines the control groups in which the task will be run.
\fBcontrollers\fR is a list of controllers and
\fBpath\fR is the relative path to control groups
in the given controllers list.

This flag can be used multiple times to
define multiple pairs of lists of controllers
and relative paths.
Instead of the list of all mounted controllers,
the wildcard \fBb"*b"\fR can be used.

If this option is not used,
\fBcgexec\fR will automatically place the task in the right
cgroup based on \fB/etc/cgrules.conf\fR.

If \fB/etc/cgrules.conf\fR configuration file is used, there can be used
template names. Then the control group name contains
a template in destination tag (see \fBcgrules.conf\fR (5))
and if the cgroup does not exist in execution time,
it is created, based on \fB/etc/cgconfig.conf\fR specification.
If the specifications are not present the group is created with the default
kernel values.

.TP
.B -h, --help
Display this help and exit.

.TP
.B -r
Replaces systemd scope's idle process with the task \fBcommand\fR.

.TP
.B --sticky
If running the task \fBcommand\fR with this option, the daemon of
service cgred (cgrulesengd process) does not change both the task
of the \fBcommand\fR and the child tasks. Without this option,
the daemon does not change the task of the \fBcommand\fR but it
changes the child tasks to the right cgroup based on
\fB/etc/cgrules.conf\fR automatically.

.LP

.SH EXAMPLES

.nf
.ft B
cgexec -g *:test1 ls
.ft R
.fi
runs command \fBls\fR in control group test1
in all mounted controllers.

.nf
.ft B
cgexec -g cpu,memory:test1 ls -l
.ft R
.fi
runs command \fBls -l\fR in control group test1
in controllers cpu and memory.

.nf
.ft B
cgexec -g cpu,memory:test1 -g swap:test2 ls -l
.ft R
.fi
runs command \fBls -l\fR in control group test1
in controllers cpu and memory and control group
test2 in controller swap.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B CGROUP_LOGLEVEL
controls verbosity of the tool. Allowed values are \fBDEBUG\fR,
\fBINFO\fR, \fBWARNING\fR or \fBERROR\fR.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/cgrules.conf
default libcgroup configuration file

.SH SEE ALSO
cgrules.conf (5)
