.\" Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Ivana Hutarova Varekova <varekova@redhat.com>

.TH CGSNAPSHOT  1 2010-07-28 "Linux" "libcgroup Manual"
.SH NAME

cgsnapshot \- generate the configuration file for given controllers

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcgsnapshot\fR [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-b\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB-w\fR \fIfile\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIoutput_file\fR] [\fBcontroller\fR] [...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcgsnapshot\fR
generates the cgconfig compatible configuration file
for the given controllers.
If no controller is set, then
cgsnapshot shows all mounted hierarchies.
The output is in the same format as the
.B cgconfig.conf
configuration file.

.TP
.B -b file
Display only variables from the denylist.
The default location of the denylist is
.B /etc/cgsnapshot_denylist.conf.
This list contains all variables which should be ignored by the
.B cgsnapshot
.
If the variable is denylisted, it will not be displayed.
If it is not present on the denylist, the allowlist
is checked.

.TP
.B -h, --help
display this help and exit

.TP
.B -f, --file
Redirect the output to output_file


.TP
.B -s, --silent
Ignore all warnings

.TP
.B -t, --strict
Do not display the variables which are not on the allowlist


.TP
.B -w file
Set the denylist configuration file.
This list contains all variables which should be displayed by
.B cgsnapshot
.
If the variable is not denylisted, the allowlist is checked.
If the variable is on the allowlist, it is displayed by
.B cgsnapshot
.
If the variable is not on the allowlist,
the variable is displayed and a warning message is produced.
By default the allowlist is not used.

The warning message can be omitted using the
.B -s, --silent
flag.
If the
.B -t, --strict
flag is used, the variable which is not on the allowlist is
not displayed.

.TP
.B controller
defines the controller whose hierarchies will be
output

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B CGROUP_LOGLEVEL
controls verbosity of the tool. Allowed values are \fBDEBUG\fR,
\fBINFO\fR, \fBWARNING\fR or \fBERROR\fR.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/cgsnapshot_denylist.conf
default denylist

.TP
.B /etc/cgsnapshot_allowlist.conf
default allowlist

.TP
.B /etc/cgconfig.conf
default libcgroup configuration file

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B cgsnapshot -s -f /etc/cgconfig.conf.cgsnapshot
create configuration file which contains all mounted controllers and all
control groups which are on the actual system

.TP
.B cgsnapshot -s -f /etc/cgconfig.conf.cgsnapshot cpu
create configuration file which contains hierarchy containing cpu controller and all its
control groups on the actual system



.SH SEE ALSO
cgconfig.conf (5)
