.TH CGXSET  1 2022-08-03 "Linux" "libcgroup Manual"
.SH NAME

cgxset \- set the parameters of given cgroup(s)

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcgxset\fR [\fB-1\fR] [\fB-2\fR] [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-b\fR] [\fB-r\fR <\fIname=value\fR>] <\fBcgroup_path\fR> ...
.br
\fBcgxset\fR [\fB-b\fR] \fB--copy-from\fR <\fIsource_cgroup_path\fR> <\fBcgroup_path\fR> ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the parameters of input cgroups.
When the request's cgroup version differs from the system's cgroup version, \fBcgxset\fR will
attempt to translate from one version to the other.
If the request version and the system's version are the same, no translation is done and
\fBcgxset\fR will behave like \fBcgset\fR.
If no version is specified by the user (either [\fB-1\fR] or [\fB-2\fR]) and the [\fB-r\fR] flag
is specified, the behavior is undefined.
\fB--copy-from\fR does not require the cgroup version to be specified.

.TP
.B <path>
is the name of the cgroup which should be changed.
This parameter can be used multiple times.

.TP
.B -1, --v1
data in/out of \fBcgxset\fR is in cgroup v1 format.
In this mode, the user will provide values in cgroup v1 format and receive values in v1 format.
format.
If the system is running in cgroup v2 mode, libcgroup will convert the data as necessary

.TP
.B -2, --v2
data in/out of \fBcgxset\fR is in cgroup v2 format.
In this mode, the user will provide values in cgroup v2 format and receive values in v2 format.
If the system is running in cgroup v1 mode, libcgroup will convert the data as necessary

.TP
.B -b
ignores the default systemd delegated hierarchy path and constructs the path of the control groups
relative to the cgroup root hierarchy.

.TP
.B -i, --ignore-unmappable
ignore errors for values that cannot be converted from v1 to v2 or vice versa

.TP
.B -r <name=value>
defines the name of the file to set and
the value which should be written to that file.
This parameter can be used multiple times.

.TP
.B --copy-from <source_cgroup_path>
defines the name of the cgroup whose parameters will be
copied to the input cgroup.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B CGROUP_LOGLEVEL
controls verbosity of the tool. Allowed values are \fBDEBUG\fR,
\fBINFO\fR, \fBWARNING\fR or \fBERROR\fR.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B cgxset -1 -r cpuset.cpus=0-1 student
set variable cpus in control group student (controller cpuset) to 0-1

.TP
.B cgxset -2 -r cpu.weight=42 first
set variable weight in control group first (controller cpu) to 42

.TP
.B cgxset --copy-from group1/ group2/
copy all parameters of group group1 to group group2
(for all path where both cgroups are defined)


.SH SEE ALSO
cgrules.conf (1), cgcreate (1), cgget (1), cgset (1), cgxget (1)
