.\" Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by Ivana Hutarova Varekova <varekova@redhat.com>

.TH LSSUBSYS  1 2009-11-05 "Linux" "libcgroup Manual"
.SH NAME

lssubsys \- list hierarchies containing given subsystem

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBlssubsys\fR  [\fB-m|--mount-points\fR] [\fB-M|--all-mount-points\fR]
[\fIcontroller\fR] [...]
.br
\fBlssubsys\fR  [\fB-m|--mount-points\fR] [\fB-M|--all-mount-points\fR]
[\fB-i|--hierarchies\fR] [\fB-a|--all\fR]
.br
\fBlssubsys\fR  [\fB-h|--help\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlssubsys\fR list the hierarchies containing
the given subsystem(s). If no subsystem is defined, it
displays all mounted hierarchies.

.TP
.B controller
defines the subsystem whose hierarchy is shown.
If this parameter is not used, the command will
list all mounted subsystems.

.TP
.B -m, --mount-points
Display mount points. Only the first mount points of shown hierarchies are displayed.

.TP
.B -M, --all-mount-points
Display mount points. All mount points of shown hierarchies are displayed, each on
separate line.

.TP
.B -a, --all
Display all subsystems (including unmounted ones).

.TP
.B -i, --hierarchies
Display the attached hierarchy number if the subsystem is in a hierarchy.
If the option
.B -m
is also used, the hierarchy number is shown only for unmounted hierarchies.

.TP
.B -h, --help
Display help and exit.

.SH EXAMPLE
The command
.B lssubsys -am
lists all subsystems which are present in the system,
mounted ones will be shown with their mount point:
.RS
.nf
$ lssubsys -am
ns
cpuset
cpu,devices
cpuacct /cgroup/cpuacct
memory /cgroup/memory
freezer /cgroup/freezer
net_cls /cgroup/net_cls
.fi
.RE
.LP
The command
.B lssubsys -ami
lists all subsystems which are present in the system,
mounted subsystems are listed with their mount points,
unmounted ones which are in a hierarchy are listed with their hierarchy number:
.RS
.nf
$ lssubsys -ami
ns
cpuset 5
cpu,devices 6
cpuacct /cgroup/cpuacct
memory /cgroup/memory
freezer /cgroup/freezer
net_cls /cgroup/net_cls
.fi

.SH NOTES
.TP
lssubsys is currently supported on cgroups v1 only.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B CGROUP_LOGLEVEL
controls verbosity of the tool. Allowed values are \fBDEBUG\fR,
\fBINFO\fR, \fBWARNING\fR or \fBERROR\fR.

.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
lscgroup (1), cgcreate (1), cgdelete (1),
cgconfig.conf (5)
